Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
One more thing. Let me
tell you about a new
sponsor Regan. If you're wanting
to detect and diagnose errors
and crashes in your software,
even find problems that you
didn't know existed to improve
your software and Reagan might
be perfect for you. You
had a few lines of
code your application, and in
minutes, you'll get real time
error reports with all the
information that you need to
fix bugs fast, you can
even hook it up to
your team. Chat, bug tracking
development, workflow tools, Regan covers
all major web and mobile
programming languages, including.net, the full
Xamarin stack JavaScript, and many
more. Go check out Reagan
today@reagan.io. I use this myself
on my little startup and
I really, really recommend this
product. It is a great,
great product. Check it out.
Ray gun@raygundotiofromhanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four eight. In this
episode, Scott talks with Andrea
Gita about the current state
of virtual reality. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And today I'm chatting with
Andrea Gita. She used to
work for unity. We've all
heard of unity, and now
she works for GitHub, which
we have also all heard
of. You've worked at lots
of places that we've heard
of. Yes, this is true.
I've got hi. How are
you? I am very good.
I am so very pleased
to be here. My pleasure.
And it's always fun to
talk to you the last
time I saw you. We
were talking about augmented reality
and virtual reality together. Yes,
exactly. When looking at the
holodeck announcements and all of
that completely crazy stuff, I
would like it to be
a holodeck though. It feels
like it should be a
holodeck. That's what we're doing.
I mean, aren't, don't you
think as an industry? That
is the Yes, totally. I
mean, it's, it's, it's, we're
getting there. The augmented, the,
in the virtual experiences are
aligning and it's, it's totally
a holodeck. I think like
both of them are going
to get together. It's going
to completely blow our minds
even more than it's already
doing. Do you think that
augmented reality and virtual reality
is going to be a,
and this is a cliche,
the next iPad. Yes. For
the next generation. I mean,
we are, we are in
the transition, the generation that's
coming now are, are they,
the iPad is their thing,
right? The next generation is
gonna have the augmented reality
and virtual reality as a
normal thing, right. There are
going to be the content
builders. As we, as we
are the content builders for
the current generation, that's using
things, right. They're going to
be the content filters for
the next generation. So it's
going to progress from there
and in a world changing
view of things. It makes
me wonder if the second
life people who I still
look on as being a
little bit weird were ahead
of their time. Oh yeah,
totally. I mean, even at
the same time that they
were launching, I remember there
was a company called doing
a thing called black sun
black soon to access, which
was also like literally all
to world with shopping malls
and everything that was directly
like the title black sun
is the, the, like the,
the building in snow crash
where all the hackers get
together. Right. And this is
really early, like second life
who was just starting. This
was 98, something like that.
So, I mean, everybody's already,
it's all of the technologies
that you see have multiple
generations and iterations. There's always
someone in coming out really
early, but there's, there wouldn't
be the technology if they
didn't start there. Right? Yeah.
Yeah. Black son, B L
a X X, U N.
They were in 1995. And
unfortunately, so early on, they
were gone by 2002. Yeah.
I remember having a disc
and playing with it, like,
because the company I was
working for at the time
was trying to figure out
how to do these experiences,
like, you know, virtual reality
shopping malls or looking at
interiors of buildings and architecture,
stuff like that. So that
was, that was mind blowing
at the time. We've only
gotten three minutes into the
podcast and it didn't take
you that long to mention
snow crash. And I don't
know if everyone who has
who's listening is familiar with
snow crash, but maybe you
could talk a little bit
about that book and what
it means to you and
what it means. Why does
it keep coming up so
early on in discussions around
augmented and virtual reality? So
I think it's because it
is so real and accurate
to the experience of how
you build of something completely
new. Not only because it
was describing a virtual reality,
but describing the lives of
people inside the virtual reality,
which why people used it,
right. People logged in just
to meet with friends or
to show off or to
do business. And it was
just a normal experience. So
the, the, the book already
shows the virtual reality in
a generation that's using it,
not as a gimmick, but
already as something that is
a part of life, basically.
And that, that this, where
you throw a light into
a completely different universe that
doesn't exist. And this is
at a time where like
computers, internet so barely young
or not even there. Right.
And just to put that
light in a world where
you can just shift, it's
not even in construction, it's
already there. It's, it's gone
through all of the iterations
that we're still going through.
And at that time it
was completely crazy. And it's
a vision, right. But it's,
those visions are the ones
that actually give you a
goal. So you need something
to strive for, even if
you don't get there, at
least there's goalposts. It was
like, I want that. And
that's why everybody's going, like
everybody it's snow crash because
that's what, like, I want
that. Yeah. And, you know,
we talked a little bit
at the beginning about the
holodeck, but the holodeck was
a curiosity. It was where
the captain went to chill.
But the holodeck only in
later, did it become an
actual, like sentience thing. And
they would fight with it.
And they were AIS in
the holodeck, but it was
never part of the economy.
It was never part of
the living, breathing, you know,
aspect of their everyday life.
It was just a place
that they went to hang
out. Yeah. Which is why,
I mean, which is why
most, I think most developers
that think fee VR thinks
no crash more than thinking
holodeck because it wasn't a
part, it, it became a
part, it went like interfering
started using it for, you
know, you can see like
the CSI things of today,
where with the holograms that
they map and, and move
things around for truly that,
that was what they did
in the holodeck interfering of
a couple of episodes like
that. But it was between
the heart of the holodeck
is amazingly cool, but it's
not, it's more a gimmick.
It's less it's, it's kind
of like at the point
in history where it's still
new, it's still a thing
it's still, what are we
going to do with this
while snow crash is just,
it's there it's part of
life it's internet, but in
three D Yeah. And the
thing that was not only
was it integrated with the
universe, but that Stevenson the
author. And again, this is
1992, I think when snow
crash was written, when they
would enter this, this metaverse,
they had different levels of
interaction based on how much
money they had. So people
who are entering the metaverse
from a low quality public
terminal would see a black
and white metaverse that was
3d, but it was great,
you know, grainy and poor,
but rich people would, would,
you know, Jack in with
goggles and they'd be on
it 24, seven, they would
choose to live in it
like that. I'm like, what
was the movie with Bruce Willis?
Oh, the surrogates. Yes. Which
is also another book. Yeah.
And, and also locked in
the recent yeah. With the
idea that, well, if you
can't move, if you are
physically disabled to the point
where you're not able to
move at all, you could
potentially Jack in and have
a very, very successful life
through a surrogate, a robot.
Yeah. But to the thing
that was so interesting is
that he knew, he was
thinking about goggles and, you
know, Google glass before anyone
was thinking about those things.
This is 23 years ago.
Yes. It's amazing. If you
read the description of the
scenes where he's checked in,
like he's describing something that
we now know is the
Oculus it's, it's goggles connected
with a cord. And funny
enough, he has exactly the
same problems in the book
that Oculus has in real
life, which is, if you,
if you push the, the,
the core two months, the
goggles back, come off, your
face and movement is annoying
because you want to move.
Right. But at the same
time, you're stuck with that
wire. So, and that, that's
what at the scenes having
to lug the wires around,
but you need the wires
because you need, you need
the bandwidth for, for being,
for everything, for things not
to be in, you know,
black and white. Right. Right.
You don't have the bandwidth
you need that. You don't
want jitter. You need high
Rez. I mean, it needs
to be jacked in HTMI
high quality. Yeah. Totally. I
mean, the guy who the
guy was really, he thought
about it, you thought about
it, you thought about how
do you, what does the
hardware look like? I mean,
not the wireless back then
was not an option, but
even if it was, you
still need, you still need
the wire because you need
the bandwidth. And it's like,
what does it look like?
And why would it operate?
I mean, he really thought
about it. And I was,
I was looking at Michael
Abrash. He wrote a blog
post when he joined Oculus
saying that the telling how
he got there, and there
was snow crash and ready
player one, which is another
book that gives you the
same vision. But now we
know how the word where
it looks like. So let's
push it a bit more
in terms of, you know,
getting full checked and the
whole body suit and like
everything and how kids would
grow up in an environment
like this. But it's not
crashed I'm in the age.
Both of these already fit
that in terms of, that's
why I think people really,
they don't want to die.
They don't want to get
to well before they see
this actually happening. And they
really, really want this to
happen because it was so
much fun. Well, that's making
me realize though, that you,
you said that, you know,
today's like my children, they're
the iPad generation. Right. Am
I going to be just
an old guy? That's like
jacked into the net, you
know, is that, are we
going to go to where
the old people are? And
they're all just going to
be jacked in running around.
I bet if you thought
of the symptoms or not
for drama, the old people
are, are, they haven't have
a virtual reality of put
away. So, well, let's let
me this thing, Let's talk
about the details of the,
of, of the Oculus and
things like it. When you
put this on and I've,
I've used the dev kit
one, is that Yeah. The
decay one. Yeah. And it
was about for ADP, it
was interlaced. It had a
screen door effect. I was
distinctly aware that this was
on my head, but if
I mentally forgot about, if
I forced myself to forget
about the resolution, the thing
that is so striking about
the Oculus isn't, whether it's
high rise or not, I
think it's the, it's the
naturalness of the movement of
the head. There's a, there's
a smoothness to it. And
a lack of jitter and
immediacy to it that, that
you don't see anywhere else.
Yeah. It's so the Tiki
one, totally remember the first
time I put it on,
it was, it took me
because I put it on
with our classes and I
wear glasses, but I don't
like having stuff, you know,
like the three thing goggles
in the movies or the
Oculus stuffed and on top
of my glasses and I
don't see that badly, so
I can, I can deal
with it when I put
it on the first time.
I didn't see the screen
door effect immediately because of
that, what's really like hit
me, was the space, the
feeling that you are no
longer in the same space
that there's other space. Right.
And if you stretch your
hands, you're not going to
hit walls, even though you're
standing right next to a
wall, but your brain immediately
says, yes, I have teleported
into something else. I totally
accept this. That's true. And
you know, it's not right,
but it's the brain goes,
Oh yeah, totally. I'm walking
around in Italy. You know,
that's exactly that you do
the Italian demo, right. That
was the walking around on
the Italian Villa. I did
the first one actually was
the demo where you're sitting
down and being judged and
you don't actually move around.
You're always sitting down. The
only thing that you can
do is look around the
room. The room is very
dark and there's like three
judges on a panel in
front of you saying things
that you don't really like
more, more, more like a
Charlie Brown. And then you're
looking around, it's dark and
you can see like eyes
peeking behind curtains. And it's
kind of really weird. And
then suddenly they touch you.
The trapdoor opens under your
seat and you fall and
you're falling through a tube.
And then suddenly you're free
falling. I don't know how
many kilometers to above the
ground. And you see the
ground and you are falling
and you can, you are
like, you don't even need
the wind to realize that
you are falling the entire
thing. So your brain just
goes, yup. I'm falling. And
it's grab your seat. Yeah.
I mean, you go like
this, everybody grabs. I mean,
you gotta go. It's completely
static. And Raul, what the
hell they look up? They
look down and it's like,
Oh my God, I'm falling.
And it's completely believable. And,
but even better because you
actually sitting down and not
moving people that are prone
to having to being sick
because of the emotion signals
because of the, the, the
Oculus, like if the demos
not quite calibrated for the
speed that your brain thinks
you should be moving your
head, you'll get sick. Yeah.
It was a really interesting
experience. I had the DK
one, I bought it, I
hooked it up to my
machine and I play, I
hacked the little, there's a
switch in half-life because I
wanted to try something significant
and half-life put in a
VR switch and I honestly
got nauseous. I'm actually getting
a little nauseous thinking about
it because it's amazing. But
at the same time, your
brain really knows. If it's
off by a millisecond or
10 milliseconds, like it's a
jitter is wrong. You get
violently ill quickly. That seems
like that's the number one
issue that they're gonna have
to solve. Not the resolution.
Yeah. It's it's bad. And
actually it wasn't as bad.
Like the, the, with the
TK one when I tried
it, I tried rollercoaster demos.
Amazing, amazing. I tried a
bunch of demos. I never
got, I never got motion
sickness. The TK two, the
first one I tried, that
was, that was so a
better resolution. The refresh rate
is higher in general. It's
still the screen door effect,
but much. I mean, I'm
much more reduced. It's still
there, but most of all,
so it, it has more
power. I can show you
more pixels. And there was
probably more demos at the
time. It's faster in terms
of, of reaction. Latency is
lower. All of this stuff,
which means that any, any
weird stuff between the speed
at which you move either
at body or your head,
or if you're controlling with
keyboard, then you go forward
the speed at which you
expect to move. And the
speed at which you actually
move is different. Your brain
will just go, no, this
is no immediately. It's really
it's it. It was like,
it was just looking around
a little airplane and it
was like, Oh, okay. But
that, that is something that
is, I mean, it's, it
has to do with content.
It has to do with
the people that make it,
because that's going to happen.
It's expectations of the brain
in terms of your body.
Because now it's not only
just looking at the screen
and you know, you can
move around, but you're not
in it. And you can
actually, probably either, you know,
it's, it's a game. It's,
you're a praying can totally
separate yourself because you can
move your head independently of
what you're seeing on the
screen. When you have one
of these things on, there's
no separation at all, your
brain will totally buy it
because it does. And then
anything that doesn't really, really
jive with, what your brain
is expecting really kills you.
I also tried the Crescent
Bay prototype and that one
is amazing. What is the
name of that? Again? The
question PEI Crescent Bay. No,
it's the next gen Oculus.
So it's the one before
the commercial version, right? So
there's the TK one, then
there's the ticket two. And
then they, they did the
next minute. I think it's
Crescent. Remember the prototype? No,
it's a prototype that is
only available for them as
I try to unity because
there were, there were the
Marine get out and that
thing is like, it's really
something else. Screen door effects
almost gone. Okay. So it
really is getting better. Yes.
And they track you with
a camera. It's actually the
one that they were demoing.
It built. I think there
were a bunch of Harkness
there. So they have a
bunch of dots on the
element now on my little
screen, the thing. Yeah. So
they track you with it
and if a red camera
or which tracks the dots.
So yeah, exactly. Which basically
means you can peek around
corners. I want to take
a brief moment to thank
my sponsors sync fusion this
week, the first and only
complete Hadoop distribution designed for
windows is now available from
sync fusion. You can literally
deploy a production ready, big
data cluster in minutes. This
revolutionary big data platform will
not only change the way
that you approach big data,
but it is 100% free
for everyone with free commercial
support for sync fusion. Plus
members learn more at sync,
fusion.com/big data. So I understand
that with the gyros inside
of an Oculus, I can
turn my head left and
right. But if I stray,
if I move my head
laterally, yeah. How does it
know that? Well, if a
web cam was in front
of you, it can know
that. So that would make
everything more stable, I would
think, Hey, Exactly. So, and
gives you way more degrees
of freedom. So for the
DK too, you can already
detect a upward motion left
right up down, because, because
the sensors can let you
track that, but you can't
can't track. If you leaning
forward, you can track this
as long as you have
an actual camera that can
check. I think he too
has it's comes with a
small camera that gets connected
to the U the Oculus.
So he can actually detect
if you're leaning forward, what
they did was give you
even more degrees of freedom.
So you can look under
things and you can look
around things and it tracks
the whole movement of the
head. So you can, you
can track neck movements because
of that, even if you're
not moving at all. And
that, and then they have
obviously a demo with a
dinosaur that he goes over,
you know, goes over. It
can look under it and
you can hide in grass.
I think that the, I
like the comment about peeking
around something, because that is
the thing, like, it sounds
silly. Like there's so many
goals, there's so many end
points, but just simply being
able to peek around. I
I've, I've heard that there
may be a year from
now. We're going to see
all webcams will have an
infrared component, both for facial
recognition for windows. Hello. But
like, I just bought a
new webcam. So the webcam
that you and I are
chatting with right now is
a, is a logic nine
30. And I had thought
webcams were a solved problem.
Like I'm like, Oh, okay.
And I haven't even thought
about webcams in two or
three years. I had a
logic tech nine, 10 is
a perfectly good webcam, but
I just got this nine
30. It's got onboard H
two 64 encoding. So it's
not my machine. Doesn't do
any of the work. The
next one, the ones that
will work with windows. Hello.
I understand we'll need H
IRR so that they can,
they can track your face.
So it's almost like we're
starting to get where a,
a tiny little connect is
going to be available as
an off the shelf, consumer
webcam. And that will make
augmented reality that much easier.
I'm I'm sitting right now.
I'm looking at a nine
30 because I already have
one that they're amazing. Best
freaking camera. Yes, it is.
It's ridiculously wide view and
everything always looks good. It's
awesome. And right next to
it is the IRR camera
from, from the Oculus. It's
just sitting right next to
it. So I already have
something like that. Great minds
think alike. I do want
to point out that there's
a difference though, between moving
physically in virtual reality and
seated people are saying that
the movement thing might take
awhile to figure out, but
sitting in, in a, in
a scenario like this one
with elite dangerous, the space
adventure game, we're saying that
that's the killer thing. Like,
okay, maybe I can't stand
up, but at least I
can look around a cockpit
of a space ship. Elite
is amazing earth. I have,
I have, I have a
leads with the DK two
and a choice stick with
a throttle stick, like a
huge, like huge metal. It's
like, it's just like a
proper, like it came out
of us, came out of
F 16. Oh my Oh,
wow. That is legit. Okay.
So she's got a complete,
full on metal. It looks
like it's headquartered. Yes. And
this is only half of
it because the throttle it's
the other half, it's like
double throttle with, with switches
in the game, you see
your hands, but they're not
real. They're not getting tracked
even though the DK to
contract them, but they support
the good one as well.
And they don't track that.
What they do is really,
really clever. So there was
another camp. I can't remember
the name that came before
this that also had support
for the Oculus. And the
amazing thing when you're in
a cockpit is being able
to look around you 360
degrees. And, and, and actually,
you know, when you were
playing ring commander, when I
was a kid or whatever
people are playing now with
simulators really, really want to
like the guys just flown
off your screen and you
want to look at it,
right. And you can actually
do this. You can move
your, your head and go,
Whoa, that just flew off.
Let me turn around. And
with the leap, not only
can you do that, but
all of the UI, all
of the HUD of the
cockpit is accessible when you
look at it. So if
you want to access button,
no, you just look at
it. Yeah. Well, yes. And
then you can control it
with a keyboard or with
a choice tech, if you
have enough sticks, which I
do, because it doesn't tend
to stacks, but basically have
your hands on the choice.
Second, you look on your
left side for the communications
HUD, and you will activate
because you're looking at it
with an right. And then
you can just Tony stark
style. Yes, exactly. All of
the HUD is like that.
We're not seeing you. I
just want to point out
that Andre is absolutely beaming
right now. And I think
that's what makes people like
about augmented reality. Don't they?
Yeah. I mean, it's, it's,
it gets tiring. After a
while we come clean with
it physically and mentally, it's
kinda like after a while
you get tired, but we're
talking about technology, an Oculus,
that's still in a prototype
phase, developer edition, not even
a consumer version and already
spending hours, playing elect, landing
and flying. There's a lot
of experiences that are still
hard to make. People are
still trying to figure out
how to make experiences and
content for this. But other
experiences, you already know that
they're were just waiting for
this right wing commander, elite
stuff like this. Like you
totally know. What do you
think this is going to
do to people's brains though?
Like, I know that I
kind of am saddened when
I'm kids walk by and
at a mall and their
brains are plugged into a
Nintendo three DS. And I'm
thinking, what is this doing
to this little person's brain
that they are on this
thing for five hours a
day. I don't let my
kids do that. It's a
nine year old gonna do
jacked into an Oculus. And
I mean, that's, that's, that's
going to change their brain.
Yes. But depends on the
content. Depends on the experiences.
Right? It's going to change
the branding. I have no
idea what the effect is
going to be, but there's
this game keep talking and
nobody explodes Keep talking and
nobody explodes. That's the name
of the game. Yes. Which
is amazing game for Oculus,
where you have to diffuse
a Barb with in pairs.
So one of you is
sitting with the Oculus, looking
at the BOM and the
other one sitting with the
manual and you have to
describe what the vom looks
like. Oh, they can't see
it. No, you're explaining. And
they're going through the mine
manual and telling you what
to do basically. That's it.
Now that's interesting because this
isn't just a, put a
helmet on your head and
disappear kind of a game.
There's a social aspect to
it. It's a clever mechanic.
Yeah. It's, it's new content,
different content made just for
the Oculus. You can do
this. This is completely new.
It's an experience that he
could never do with any
other medium. Right. Cause you're,
you're acting as if you're
separate, you're away somewhere. And
they're explaining over the phone
to you. Exactly. Cut the
red wire, Cut the red
wire and the fuse. Like
you, there's two people pairing
up, but it's that they've
done a bunch of tests
with the couples, which is
funny because I, yeah, absolutely.
Right. I'm thinking about like
where my wife and I
were going to die. There's
no way we're going to
get this thing taken apart.
Exactly. It's, it's pretty much
like that, but, but it's
amazing. It's, it's it's this
is the thing, like it's
gonna ruin brains. Yes. Like
funds ruin brains and everything
changes your brain. I can't
even imagine. I mean, people
are going to be different,
right. For growing up with
this stuff. But then again,
imagine the content that can
be done instead of, I
mean like the experiences that
he can experience because you
can't go somewhere, but you
can see it and you
can experience that. You can
touch it and you can
examine it. Right. So in
that sense that the content
that can be done is
amazing. And I mean, it's
like there was another, there
was another game, not directly
with the Oculus, but with
smart sensors where you would
have a book and you
were playing a game in
your like Harry Potter kind of
magic thing in every time
you have to cast a
spell or do anything, you
have to open the right
page of the book. It's
a physical book and touch
the right combination of, to
launch dispel to do your
thing. Right? And the book
is wired up with a
bunch of sensors and the
electric paint and everything. So
to the tech touches and
to detect all of this
stuff and send it directly
to the game. So now
you playing a game and
interacting with physical objects. Now
I imagine that that type
of interaction with the Oculus,
right? So there's, there's, I
mean, there's all kinds of
contents that we can't imagine,
which is why I say
that, like the people that
are growing up with this
stuff, the next generation, that's
going to, the people that
are seeing this in a
consumer way, they're going to
start seeing the world differently.
Yes. But there are going
to start producing content that
we can never think about
because we are bound by
our current experiences, which is
why. Yeah. One of the
games that's been blowing my
mind lately is life is
strange. Have you played that
Life is strange. No, not
yet. It's, it's kind of
like walking dead or game
of Thrones. It's one of
those kinds of, it feels
a little bit like a
telltale games game, but basically
it's about, it's a, it's
a simulation of being in
high school and you are
a teenage girl and there's
all this anxiety and everything.
And then I don't know,
15 or 20 minutes into
the game, very short amount.
I'm not giving any spoilers
away. She discovers that she
can turn back time, which
I think is what, every
time, whatever, whatever teenage girl
or teenage boy would want
to do, which is like,
Oh, I just said something
dumb in class. Let's back
up and let's do that
over again. And then, then,
then it becomes a big
conspiracy and she discovers a
huge conspiracy theory and then
spends multiple, you know, it's
an episodic game. Oh, wow.
She has to uncover this
and you should try this.
I'd love to talk to
you about it sometime. It
feels like, you know, the
walking dead or game of
Thrones type games, it's kind
of 3d. It also happens
to be an Oregon, which
is, which is cool. Cause
I'm an Oregon. But if
you could play as a
teenage girl or someone, I
am not a teenage girl.
If someone that you are
not, you know what I
mean? If you could play
mass effect as an alien,
you know what I mean?
And be not just first-person,
but be that alien, look
in the mirror, look in
the mirror and see that
you're a lizard that now
we're talking. Yes. That was
one of the first demos
actually that came out, not
a demo, but there was
one of the, the hack
weeks at unity where all
the developers get together for
a week and just hack
on stuff. The first week
that we had an Oculus
at the office, the first
hack week, someone went and
did a that and be
just, yes, but look in
the mirror as not you
as your opposite gender. Oh
wow. Just as promote gender.
Wow. That's insane. Yeah. So
it's like, you know, like,
no, but that's just yourself.
It's a field that creates
empathy. Yeah. There was, there
was also an experiment where
people would do two peoples
lying down. We'll put the
Oculus on and then they
would, they would look through
the other person's kind of
perspective. Oh, so you swap
your eyes. Basically. I look
out of my eyes, see
the Oculus, which is a
view out of your eyes,
looking back at me. And
when we look at each
other, Yes. Something like that
too, to really give you
a bad sense of out
of body, because the brain
believes it's amazing for all
of the stuff that you
know, your required patterns and
all of this stuff, you're
wired to identify. It's amazing
how in half a second,
you put on that thing.
If the environment is well
done, it not even have
to be well done because
you think I didn't have
that much going for it,
but it still gave you
that as soon as you
step into it, you can't
even do anything. It's just
looking around and it's kind
of like, So let me,
as we, as we wrap
up here, let me put
you on the spot. It
is June of 2015. When
am I going to be
able to walk into a
store and buy an amazing
off the shelf, virtual reality
thing and have an amazing
experience, put a date on
it and we'll come back.
And we'll when it happens.
And we'll see if you
were right. You can buy
it. I will bet too.
In June, 2016, Seriously, one year
from now, I'll be able
to have a great experience
for the chroma Experience, the
great experience. That's a problem.
You can actually have great
experiences right now, small, small,
like the keeps talking, nobody
explodes like you lead, like
all of these, you can
already have them. Which means
that when the consumer version
ships, which I tune 2016,
that's your feeling when it'll
be ready, I'm a pessimist.
So I would say September,
because that's traditionally when they
ended up, That means Christmas,
Christmas, next year, they're saying
first quarter, next year, First
quarter of 2016. I'm saying
it's going to be push
it by the end. They've
been good at delivering on,
on, on their, on their
worth of how, when the
deliver, but it's going to
be complicated. Also. It still
annoys me that it's not
wireless for all of the,
yes, we need wire for
bandwidth. I want to, I
want to movable experience. I
want to stand up And
morph. Yeah. It's so hard.
The latency to push that
kind of, you know, it's
every millisecond counts, you know?
Yes. I mean everything like
GPU graphics and everything counts,
but, but, but I want
to move Well, you know,
there's a thing called, have
you seen the Omni Virtuix
I have not. I've played
around with the Samsung gear,
which, which tries to, to,
I mean, it basically, is
this a phone with an
Oculus? Yeah. That would be
an interesting way to walk.
Right? I think we could
see a version of the
iPhone, maybe the iPhone nine
or the iPhone eight. The
screens are already there with
Google cardboard. Right? Google cardboard
is literally just a piece
of cardboard that you hold
up to your eyes and
you put the phone in
and boom, you've got a
poor man's VR. Yeah. And
amazingly it works. Yeah. It's
yeah, it does work. And
also the Virtuix Omni is
like, you know, those discs,
it's a concave disc that
you would like, you know,
the kind of thing that
you, when you were a
kid, you'd be on a,
a sled. You get a
nice, big, giant concave disc.
And you'd go sledding down
in this disc. Imagine that
with supports that lets you
run in place, right. You
run in place and then
you put, you know, you're
supported by the thing and
I'll kind of a harness.
It is the height of
geekiness. You think a segway
looks makes you look like
a dork, but it's amazing
because like, I want to
run in place on this
disc with these special shoes
and then you get the
gun and now you're living
in call of duty. Yes
that's that's that's the demo
that they threw it to
the C I've seen it.
It's it's it's it's gonna
get there. You know what
it reminds me of it's
like today, if you're an
enthusiast, you can spend a
couple of grand and get
an amazing car simulator. Like
you can have the seat
and the shifter, you know,
people who are always building
a space shuttle in their
garage or a complete flight
simulator, that's going to become
much more common for people.
It's going to be more
accessible. Well, less money. Two
years ago, I was at
the conference in Lisbon called
carpets. And a friend of
mine built an experience with
another friend of them. So
they got together. This guy
builds our kids for a
living because the markets, he
built two Tron bikes. Oh
my goodness. And with the
Oculus Tron and Oculus, that's
everything, You're on the bike
and you, and try the
bike, you know, it's it's
you move it side by
side one side in the
other end, you will, it
will shift directions just like
in, you're playing the game
with the Oculus. That will
not make me nauseous at
all. No, it's actually really,
really good. That's amazing. Well,
thanks so much for sharing
kind of the state of
virtual reality with me. I
really appreciate it. No problem.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and we'll
see you again next week.